Skip to content


Register

Sign In
Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live

Will food delivery robots help or hinder workers?
5 March 2026

Share

Save

Add as preferred on Google
Jim Scott
in Sunderland
BBC/Jim Scott Peter Richardson, from Koji, kneels next to the white-and-orange branded robotic vehicle, which has a black pole with an orange flag on top. He is outside the restaurant on High Street West, and in the background is another robotic vehicle.BBC/Jim Scott
Koji is one of the first restaurants to be trialling the technology
Self-driving food delivery robots will be able to help out during busy periods and staff shortages, according to a restaurant boss, but there are fears about the impact on jobs.

Several automated vehicles are being trialled by online delivery firm Just Eat with real customer orders from 12 restaurants in Sunderland.

However, the Independent Workers' Union of Great Britain (IWGB) said it "rings out like a warning alarm" to members and echoed a "worrying wider trend" in the automation of roles.

But Starship Technologies, which developed the vehicles, said they would not replace humans and would one day allow couriers to focus on deliveries further out of city centres.

The vehicles are fully autonomous and have been designed to navigate paths and busy roads safely, often using pedestrian crossings.

Asian restaurant Koji, on High Street West, is among those taking part in the trial and said the response had been positive and, so far, a success.

"It was really important, it's such a unique thing and not something you expect to see," said general manager Peter Richardson.

"We have been a lot more popular, we've had queues outside, people coming in just for questions, it has brought a lot more footfall."



BBC/Jim Scott Rachel Atkinson, wearing a blue puffer jacket, is holding her son Teddy who is  wearing a black puffer jacket. They are both on High Street West, in front of Primark, where there are a few shoppers in the distance. BBC/Jim Scott
Rachel Atkinson with her son Teddy, who enjoyed looking at the robots as they travelled through Sunderland
However, some in the city raised concerns over the potential impact on jobs and risk of vandalism if the project becomes permanent.

Resident Eugene Murphy said he understood "you've got to move with technology" but questioned whether it was needed.

Rachael Atkinson, whose young son Teddy was taken aback by the robots, said they were a "bit crazy" and worried they would take "a lot of people's jobs".

Others said they were "pleased" to see Sunderland being used for the trial, with Shaun Taylor adding the city was "just changing with the times."

Richardson said it could overcome a problem many businesses, especially independents, had with staffing during busy periods.

He said: "If one day something did go wrong and drivers went, there you've got that back-up, so you can still get that food out.

"It's not taking away from the human side, because there's always the option, but if you think about Christmas, New Year, Ramadan, then you've got things where the robots can take over when people want time off."

BBC/Jim Scott The orange coloured robot, with Just Eat branding in white, is travelling towards the city's Keel Square. It has six chunky rubber wheels and a large pole which carries a flashing orange flag to indicate it is near. In the distance is the under-construction Culture House. BBC/Jim Scott
The robots are equipped with cameras that allow it to navigate the city centre's streets and roads
IWGB president Alex Marshall voiced concern over the introduction of the vehicles, describing them as "dystopian", adding hard work from humans was being made "redundant, with no reward".

However, Estonian-based Starship Technologies said there were "not enough couriers in the world" and it would help those "less mobile" and "unable to leave home" access deliveries.

Ahti Heinla, its founder and chief executive, said it would not replace jobs.

He said: "I think there will be more and more both human couriers and delivery robots.

"Robots have a key role to play in the delivery of infrastructure to help meet the growing demand and certain routes will still require people to complete deliveries.

"We are adding a new delivery option and it doesn't replace people".

Follow BBC Sunderland on X, Facebook, Nextdoor and Instagram.

More on this story
Delivery robots that can climb stairs being tested
Related internet links
Starship Technologies
Fast food
Robotics
Sunderland
Artificial intelligence
Related
Town has lower proportion of takeaways - appeal
Burger King rolls out AI headsets that track employee 'friendliness'
How Britain became a fried chicken nation
More from the BBC
16 hrs ago
Palantir UK boss Louis Mosley speaking to the BBC. He is wearing a dark jacket with a button up jumper and is sitting in front of a grey wall. 
Palantir UK boss says it's up to militaries to decide how AI targeting is used in war
The company's AI platform Maven has reportedly been used by the US to identify targets in Iran.

16 hrs ago
Mugshot of Wilkinson. He has short stubble and short thick dark hair.
Burglar rummaged through dead baby's memory box
A judge says Josh Wilkinson's burglary of a neighbour's home was deeply upsetting and disrespectful.

19 hrs ago
Sunderland defender Lutsharel Geertruida during a match. He is wearing the blue Sunderland away top and has his arms at his side, apparently during a break in play. A packed stand is out of focus behind him.
Arrest in Tyne-Wear derby racist abuse probe
A Gateshead man is arrested on suspicion of racially abusing Sunderland's Lutsharel Geertruida.

20 hrs ago
A logo of Claude on an iPhone, with a background of the company's star-like logo
Claude Code users hitting usage limits 'way faster than expected'
Anthropic, the company behind the AI coding assistant, said it was fixing a problem blocking users.

21 hrs ago
A computer generated image of the redeveloped former M&S building. It s green marble facade and gold clock are intact. It is surrounded by tall modern buildings and a lot of people are walking on the street.
Hopes for M&S building as High Street plans backed
Shops, offices and and flats are proposed for several sites, including the former M&S store.

Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Weather
BBC Shop
BritBox
BBC in other languages
Follow BBC on:






Terms of Use
Subscription Terms
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Contact the BBC
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
BBC.com Help & FAQs
Content Index
Set Preferred Source
Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

 

