Fire burning at Abu Dhabi gas facility hit by falling debris, authorities say
published at 13:55
13:55
Authorities in Abu Dhabi say they are responding to an incident of falling debris.

The debris fell on the Habshan gas facility "following successful interception" of missiles by air defence systems, says the update from the Abu Dhabi media office.

"Operations have been suspended while authorities respond to a fire", it says, adding that no injuries have been reported.

The United Arab Emirates earlier said it was working to counter missile and drone attacks "originating from Iran" and has separately reported another instance of falling debris in the city's Ajban region.


Share
Iran hit power and water desalination plant in Kuwait, officials say
published at 13:46
13:46
Kuwait's Ministry of Electricity and Water says a power and water desalination plant has been attacked by Iran, resulting in "material damage" to some components.

Technical and emergency teams began work "immediately" to "maintain operational efficiency", it says in a statement on X.

"The safety and stability of the electricity and water system is a top priority," the statement adds.


Share
What happened around the Middle East overnight?
published at 13:31
13:31

Freya Scott-Turner
Live reporter

Emergency personnel work at the site of damage after a barrage of Iranian missiles was launched at Israel, amid the U.S.-Israel conflict with Iran, in Petah Tikva, Israel, April 2, 2026.
Image source,Reuters
Image caption,
Israeli emergency personnel in Petah Tikva survey the damage following a barrage of Iranian missiles overnight

Sirens sounded across the Middle East overnight. Here's a quick round-up of where attacks have been recorded so far today, as Iran, the US and Israel continue to trade fire on the war's 35th day.

Lebanon: The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) reports that it has completed a "targeted attack in southern Lebanon", which it says killed 15 members of Hezbollah. It has also issued new evacuation orders for residents in the southern suburbs of Beirut.

Iran: People in Tehran have spoken to the BBC of their distress after a bridge near the capital was struck on Thursday.

Israel: The IDF said that missiles were fired towards it from Iran overnight, while the military spokesperson for the Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen said the group has fired a "barrage of ballistic missiles" at Israeli targets.

Kuwait: Emergency services have been responding to fires at an oil refinery in Kuwait after it was hit by Iranian drones. Separately, a power and water desalination plant has been attacked.

UAE: The country reported an incident of falling debris in Abu Dhabi, following an update that its air defences were "engaging with missile and drone attacks originating from Iran".

Saudi Arabia: Saudi Arabia's Ministry of Defence says it has intercepted and destroyed several drones on Friday.

Bahrain: Has asked people to shelter in safe locations, after alarms were sounded.


Share
Iran internet blackout enters 35th day
published at 13:18
13:18

Ghoncheh Habibiazad
Senior reporter, BBC Persian

Iran's internet blackout has now entered day 35, with most users cut off from the outside world for over 816 hours, according to internet monitoring group NetBlocks.

Connectivity to the outside world remains at 1% of normal levels.

Netblocks has said that the “general public remain cut off from the world without vital updates and without a voice as the incident closes its fifth week.”

Meanwhile, the BBC understands that some officials, pro-establishment users, and journalists still have unrestricted access, while others are paying large sums to get online.

A few people have managed to connect using satellite internet such as Starlink and other methods, but it comes at a high cost.

In Iran, using or possessing Starlink can lead to up to two years in prison, and authorities are trying to crack down on it. Iranian outlets have reported that “hundreds” of Starlink devices have been confiscated since the war started.

Security Council vote on Middle East no longer on UN schedule
published at 12:56
12:56
A vote by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on a resolution on the Strait of Hormuz, which had been put forward by Bahrain, appears to have been removed from the UNSC's daily schedule.

A schedule published on Thursday 2 April showed a vote on a Middle East resolution scheduled for 11:00 local time (15:00 GMT). That vote is no longer showing on the UN website, external under Friday 3 April.

No reason has been given for the removal of the meeting, and the UN has not announced a new date for the vote as of the time of this post. When we find out more about when it will take place, we will update you right here.


Share
Pakistan raises fuel prices by 43%
published at 12:42
12:42

Carrie Davies
BBC Pakistan correspondent

A man works to change the numbers on a price board at a petrol station
Image source,Reuters
Pakistan’s government has raised petrol prices by 43% and high speed diesel by 55% overnight, saying it was due to increasing oil prices caused by the war in Iran.

The country's petrol minister says the government has “limited resources and there is currently no end in sight to the war”.

Pakistan is highly dependent on imported oil and gets large quantities through the Strait of Hormuz. Recently, Pakistan said it has been able to arrange safe passage for some Pakistan flagged ships through the Strait with Iran, which has effectively closed the route.

This is the second increase in prices since the war began; petrol is now 77% more expensive and diesel 87% more than before the conflict began. There will be some subsidies for certain users. Motorcyclists will receive a subsidy of Rs100 per litre on up to 20 litres of petrol per month for the next three months.

Intercity public transport operators will get Rs100 per litre subsidy on diesel, while passenger bus services will be eligible for up to Rs100,000 per month. Farmers with smaller plots will be given a one time payment of 1,500 rupees per acre during harvest season.

For goods transport, including trucks, a monthly fuel subsidy of up to Rs70,000 will be given. In addition, the government will extend support to Pakistan Railways to help keep fares under control.

Finance Minister Muhammad Aurangzeb said the government’s ability to offer relief is limited due to financial constraints, adding that any concessions can only go to a certain extent. He added that the measures will be reviewed on a weekly basis, and adjustments will be made accordingly.


Share
More than 100 international law experts sign open letter expressing 'profound concern' over Iran war
published at 12:16
12:16

Tom Bateman
US State Department correspondent

A man in a white turban and black clothes brushes the area in front of a bombed out building
Image source,Getty Images
Image caption,
Tehran has faced waves of US-Israeli strikes since the war began in February, and Iran has retaliated by targeting Gulf states

An open letter has been signed by more than 100 experts on international law, expressing "profound concern" about what they see as serious violations of international law by the US, Israel and Iran with the war in the Middle East.

The academics and former government officials say, due to their connection with the United States, their focus is on the conduct of the US.

The law experts say both the conduct and rhetoric of the US in the war is profoundly concerning and in some cases amounts to violations of international law. They say the attack on Iran was a clear breach of the United Nations Charter, which prohibits the use of force outside of self-defence or when authorised by the UN Security Council.

The experts include former US government officials and professors in international law. They point to “alarming rhetoric” being used by US officials, including President Trump’s threats to “obliterate” Iran’s power plants.

They also highlight the attack on a school in Minab on the war’s first day, which evidence suggests was the result of a US strike, saying it could amount to a war crime if evidence is found that those responsible were reckless. The Pentagon has said it is investigating the attack.

In response to the open letter, a White House spokesperson told the BBC that Trump was "making the entire region safer and more stable".

The spokesperson added: "The president does not make these incredibly important national security decisions based on the opinions of these so-called ‘experts’, but on the best interest of the American people.”


Share
Third time Kuwait oil refinery hit since war started
published at 12:05
12:05
Lorna Gordon
Reporting from Dubai

After it was attacked by multiple drones in the early hours of Friday morning, fires broke out in parts of a key oil refinery in Kuwait.

No injuries have been reported.

The Mina al-Ahmadi port refinery, which is one of the largest in the Middle East, can refine up to 346,000 barrels of oil a day.

Kuwait has three major oil refineries. Its Mina al-Ahmadi refinery has been targeted by Iranian drones twice before during the five week-long conflict.

The Kuwait Petroleum Corporation says emergency and firefighting teams have been working to contain the fires in some of the refinery’s 39 operating units and prevent them from spreading.

It adds that air quality in the affected area is being monitored, and that so far there has been no impact on the local environment.


Share
No injuries after 'malicious drone attack' on Kuwait oil refinery, KPC says
published at 11:42
11:42
A little earlier we reported that an oil refinery in Kuwait had been attacked by drones on Friday, according to the country's state-owned oil company, Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC).

We've just seen an update from the company, which says there have been "no injuries reported" after what it describes as a "malicious drone attack early Friday". It adds that "emergency response teams acted immediately to contain the situation" at the Mina al-Ahmadi refinery.

KPC also says that, following "fires in several operational units", air quality is being closely monitored in co-ordination with Kuwait's public environmental body, and "no negative impact" has been recorded yet.


Share
Missiles launched from Iran towards Israel overnight - IDF
published at 11:30
11:30
The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) says missiles were launched from Iran towards Israel last night.

The IDF says their defensive systems were in operation overnight "to intercept the threat".

A train station in Tel Aviv was damaged by shrapnel, according to Israeli military radio, the AFP news agency reports.


Share
US and Israel step up attacks on Iranian infrastructure
published at 11:12
11:12

Yolande Knell
Middle East correspondent, in Jerusalem

ignificant sections of the B1 Bridge are seen destroyed after an airstrike attributed to the United States and Israel targeted the site near Tehran, in Karaj, Iran, on April 03, 2026.
Image source,Getty Images
Image caption,
A US strike on Iran's B1 bridge partially destroyed the structure and caused at least eight deaths, and nearly 100 injuries, according to local officials

Iranian state media says many people were picnicking near the B1 suspension bridge for the end of the Persian New Year holidays when it was hit by US warplanes.

In a post on his Truth Social platform, President Trump wrote “much more to follow”, and later suggested electric power plants could be next.

Iran has continued to show its ability to strike its neighbours overnight.

A drone attack on Kuwait’s national oil company is said to have caused several fires.

An Iranian missile with a cluster warhead was fired at central Israel – damaging property at a number of sites but with no reports of injuries.


Share
'Be serious... don't speak every day': Macron criticises Trump approach to Iran war
published at 10:50
10:50

00:29
Media caption,
Watch: Macron calls Trump's remarks on his marriage 'inelegant'

French President Emmanuel Macron has said that the war in Iran requires a "serious" approach, that doesn't change every day.

Speaking to reporters on a trip to South Korea, Macron says that "this is not a show. We are talking about war and peace and the lives of men and women".

"When you want to be serious you don't say every day the opposite of what you said the day before," he says, seemingly in reference to the Trump administration's mixed messages throughout the conflict.

At various times the Trump administration has suggested that a ceasefire was near, that the war had already been won or that the US was going to fight on.

"And maybe you shouldn't be speaking every day. You should just let things quieten down," he adds.

Read more about Macron's comments in our story

Share
Kuwait oil refinery hit by drones, state news agency says
published at 10:32
10:32
Kuwait's state-owned oil company, Kuwait Petroleum Corporation, says its Mina al-Ahmadi refinery was hit by drones on Friday, according to the country's state news agency KUNA.

There were "fires in several operational units" as a result of the attack and emergency teams have been working to contain the blazes, KUNA has quoted the corporation as saying on X


Share
How much is the US spending?
published at 10:06
10:06
The war in Iran has already come with a hefty price tag for the US.

Six days into the war last month, the Pentagon reported to lawmakers that the war had already cost them $11.3bn (£8.5bn).

As the war has drags on, the daily costs to the US have varied. US officials say costs have gone down due to Iran's weakening defence systems. But experts estimate the conflict is still coming with a bill of $385m (£291m) per day.

Take a listen to find out how that compares to the US's previous wars.


02:30
Media caption,
Ros Atkins on… the cost of the Iran war


Share
'We’ll end up with a ruined country': Iranians react to bridge strike
published at 09:47
09:47

Ghoncheh Habibiazad
Senior reporter, BBC Persian


00:10
Media caption,
Footage shows smoke rising from Karaj bridge

It's still very difficult to contact people inside Iran amid the internet outage, but some have managed to connect using satellite internet such as Starlink and other methods, though it comes at a high cost. Using or possessing Starlink can lead to up to two years in prison.

All of those that I speak to inside Iran are against the current establishment.

I asked a woman in her 20s in Tehran how she feels about the attack on a bridge in Karaj. She started crying midway through the voice message.

"I feel helpless. [Trump] posts shamelessly about attacking our bridge. I don’t know how much further this is going to go. Why is no one standing up to him? He’s really taking us back to the Stone Age," she said.

A Tehran resident in his 20s said: "We’ll end up with a ruined country. I am more disappointed and saddened that I am in the middle of a situation where I see Iran being destroyed and I can’t do anything. My country is being destroyed more and more every day."

The strike on the bridge in Karaj has worried one local resident, a man in his 20s who says he's "pro-war".

"That bridge could have reduced the traffic in the city… it was destroyed in the second strike. This strike has got me worried. I don’t know why they hit it," he said.

A woman in her 40s in Tehran, who is also pro-war, said: "I was really surprised that they hit a bridge… but I think they must have a reason for it."


Share
Trump threatens to strike Iran's bridges and electric power plants
published at 09:26
09:26
Trump says the US military "hasn't even started destroying what's left in Iran".

In a Truth social post a short while ago, Trump praised US forces as the "greatest and most powerful" saying they would target "bridges next, then electric power plants".

This comes after an air strike on a bridge under construction in Karaj, a city west of the Iranian capital Tehran, killed eight people and injuring nearly 100.

The "new regime leadership knows what has to be done, and has to be done, fast," Trump added.

This is his post in full:

"Our Military, the greatest and most powerful (by far!) anywhere in the World, hasn’t even started destroying what’s left in Iran. Bridges next, then Electric Power Plants! New Regime leadership knows what has to be done, and has to be done, FAST! President DONALD J.TRUMP"


Share
'Striking civilian structures' will not 'compel Iranians to surrender' - Iran foreign minister
published at 09:21
09:21

Ghoncheh Habibiazad
Senior reporter, BBC Persian

Earlier, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said on his X account that "striking civilian structures, including unfinished bridges, will not compel Iranians to surrender".

Araghchi said that the strike on a bridge in Karaj, "only conveys the defeat and moral collapse of an enemy in disarray" and what will "never recover" is "damage to America's standing".

Araghchi said in a separate post on X that with regards to Donald Trump’s remark of taking Iran back to the "Stone Age", that the difference between then and now is "there was no oil or gas being pumped in the Middle East back then".

"Are POTUS and Americans who put him in office sure that they want to turn back the clock?" Araghchi said.


Share
UN to vote on Strait of Hormuz resolution on Friday
published at 09:20
09:20

Tom Bateman
US State Department correspondent

It’s been confirmed that a UN Security Council vote on a resolution on the Strait of Hormuz, the subject of negotiations for weeks, will take place on Friday at 11:00 eastern US time (15:00 GMT).

Bahrain, the council's current rotating president, put forward the resolution, which authorises member states “to use all defensive means necessary and commensurate with the circumstances,” to secure transit passage in the Strait of Hormuz for at least six months.

Originally the resolution was under chapter 7 of the UN charter - authorising the use of military force - but this was removed due to the objections of Russia and China during negotiations.

However, the wording of the resolution may still bother Beijing and Moscow enough to exercise their veto - they abstained on previous drafts that condemned Iran and mentioned the strait.


Share
Analysis
The Hormuz headache
published at 09:20
09:20

Frank Gardner
Security correspondent

Sorting out the mess that this war has left the Strait of Hormuz in will be, by necessity, a delicate and complex task.

Iran controls the majority of the coastline opposite the Strait. That means it can, if it chooses, hide any number of low-tech weapons with which to ambush shipping.

There’s a reason why navies don’t want to send their warships too close to that coastline: they fear being attacked.

So most military analysts agree that force alone will not work in reopening the Strait. It will have to be by negotiation, possibly through a third party like Pakistan and then ultimately it will need a green light from Tehran.

That will be a bitter pill for Iran’s enemies to swallow.

But 34 days of devastating US and Israeli airstrikes have failed to topple the Islamic Republic and every day that it survives deepens its resolve.

With Iran in no mood to make concessions it may decide to hold out for a higher price - either financially or strategically - before agreeing to allow all shipping safe passage once more.


Share
Iran war nears the end of its fifth week
published at 09:20
09:20
Welcome back to our live coverage. We will continue to bring you the latest news and analysis from our teams across the Middle East and around the world as the conflict nears the end of its fifth week.

Here's a recap of what has been happening:

A US strike on an Iranian bridge connecting the city of Karaj to the country's capital Tehran killed eight people and a separate strike caused major explosions at the country's Isfahan missile base on Thursday
US President Donald Trump warned Iran to "make a deal" before there is "nothing left" while Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghci said "striking civilian structures" would "not compel Iranians to surrender"
Oil prices continued to rise, closing the day 11% higher in the US as traders feared prolonged disruptions to supplies
After a 40-nation call arranged by UK Foreign Minister Yvette Cooper, the European Union may be scaling up its naval force to protect Strait of Hormuz shipping routes
New strikes were reported in Israel from Iran and Yemen, while Qatar and Kuwait intercepted drones and both Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates reported missiles and drones heading into their airspace, and Iran saw strikes in Tehran and Karaj

Share
Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
BBC emails for you
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

