Skip to content


Register

Sign In
Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live

AI era 'not all doom and gloom' for graduates, say analysts
5 March 2026

Share

Save

Add as preferred on Google
Nicky Ford
London
Handout Divine Jacob, a man in a grey suit with a white shirt and purple tie against a blue background.Handout
Divine Jacob found job hunting tough after graduating from university due to AI systems
"I apply for 50, sometimes 100 jobs per month," says Londoner Divine Jacob.

The computer science graduate says job hunting has been tough since completing his degree at the University of Lincoln last summer.

He feels that artificial intelligence (AI) creates extra barriers for applicants - a fear shared by many young people.

But while AI is reshaping the job hunt for young people entering the workforce, analysts say its impact remains an "evolving picture".

Consultancy firm McKinsey says that although many companies were looking at replacing staff with AI last year, they are increasingly realising the challenge is also about managing people to use these tools effectively.

Meanwhile, some AI experts say it is "not all doom and gloom", suggesting that graduates' "AI native" skills could leave them well placed for the jobs ahead.

'Human-to-human connection'
Youth unemployment is at its highest level since 2021, with 16% of those aged 16 to 25 currently out of work.



Jacob says one of the hardest parts of trying to get a job is that many employers use AI systems to sift applications, something he feels removes the personal connection.

"Typing up your motivations for the job just to see at the end your application will be under review by the likes of bots, it's just not really the most motivating thing," says the 21-year-old.

"You want to have that human‑to‑human connection."

Suz Bannister, a woman with blonde hair wearing a black jacket looks at the camera. She is wearing a microphone.
Suz Bannister's app helps applicants to showcase their strengths
With many job hunters feeling shut out by automated screening, some new platforms are trying to help applicants show more than what an algorithm can capture.

Suz Bannister says the app she co-founded, Riser, allows applicants to upload a one‑minute video to introduce themselves and showcase their strengths.

"I think to stand out in this AI era you have to lean into both your soft and hard skills and do it beyond a generic format," she says.

But the issue is not just with the application process.


Jacob's dream industry has been particularly affected by a reduction in advertised jobs, according to McKinsey.

Drawing on last year's job‑market data, McKinsey reported in July that sectors most exposed to AI and large language models (LLMs) had seen a 38% fall in job postings.

It said some of the sharpest declines were in roles predicted to face the highest impact from generative AI.

These include software developers and other IT specialists, along with professionals in data, design, media, research, legal services, HR, finance and business.

McKinsey said young graduates were potentially facing a "triple whammy": a general labour‑market slowdown, a sharper decline in graduate‑level job openings, and reduced demand for lower‑skilled roles.

In the final quarter of 2025, unemployment stood at 5.2%, the highest rate since early 2021, with young people at the forefront of the rise.

AI will destroy jobs if not controlled, Khan warns
There are signs, however, that this picture is beginning to shift.



Tera Allas, a senior adviser at McKinsey, says the effect of AI on jobs is "very much an evolving picture".

While last year "organisations were clearly thinking about where they could replace people with AI", she says it now appears that "the jobs with the biggest AI exposure are actually the ones that are booming".

According to Allas, demand is growing, particularly in the graduate job market, for people with AI skills and strong people management abilities.

"People are realising that to put AI into their organisations effectively is about how you do the management around the people who need to use these new tools," she says.

That shift is an opportunity some start-ups are trying to seize.

Rahan Arif's organisation BossUp AI is developing a standard to measure whether people are "AI ready".

Through university partnerships, the organisation surveyed 500 students and found that 58% felt the roles they were training for had disappeared, while 61% said AI had made it harder to find work.

Arif says he does not believe this will last, arguing that the skills graduates bring will soon be among the most in demand as young people are "AI natives".

"It is definitely not doom and gloom," he says.

"In fact, to the contrary, I predict we are going to see a reversal of what we are seeing now if we fast forward two or three years time."

Rahan Arif, a man in a grey suit with a black T-shirt sits in a chair looking at the camera at his desk. He has white headphones in his ears.
Rahan Arif, founder of BossUp AI, says the skills graduates bring will soon be among the most in demand
For those already navigating the system, the experience can be bruising but also transformative.

For Jacob, it proved to be both.

He has now secured a job and says the long search has left him more resilient.

"I feel like at the end there will be a pretty much improved workforce based off the fact you have to go above and beyond," he says.

"When you do get past this AI blockage we will be able to go practically above and beyond, which is what we have to do to get our foot in the door in this current moment in time."


Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk

More on this story
Nearly a million 16-24 year-olds not working or in education
'The search is soul-destroying': Young jobseekers on the struggle to find work
'I applied for 647 jobs after uni until I got one'
Artificial intelligence
London
Employment
Related
Palantir UK boss says it's up to militaries to decide how AI targeting is used in war
Claude Code users hitting usage limits 'way faster than expected'
Thousands lose their jobs in deep cuts at tech giant Oracle
ADVERTISEMENT
Detectives return to home of Fife teen who vanished 27 years ago
Kenneth Jones, who was 18 at the time, was last seen on 2 November 1988 in Glenrothes.
Man accused of trying to rape two women in Birmingham city centre
The women were targeted within minutes of each other but fled when members of the public stepped in.
Norfolk woman's spinal injury in Thailand not covered by insurer
Jo and Stuart Ingram are stuck in Thailand because they were uninsured for an ill-fated pony ride.
Sarah Ferguson stripped of Freedom of City of York title
The former duchess was given the honour in 1987 following her marriage to the then-Prince Andrew.
Bensham 'horrible beast' raped woman who asked for help
William Flamson's victim says the attack has ruined her life and she hates the rapist.
Spanish woman who died through euthanasia failed by state, say critics
Noelia Castillo died on Thursday evening in a Barcelona hospital, after a protracted legal battle with her own father.
More from the BBC
3 hrs ago
Ruby Greensides sits facing the camera in a studio interview, wearing a dark cardigan, with green light patterns behind her.
'Years at strict school's sixth form were worst of my life'
Former pupils say Mossbourne’s strict discipline caused lasting harm and are urging a national inquiry.

3 hrs ago
An aerial view image of Wembley stadium at sunset, surrounded by houses and tower blocks. 
Local elections profile: Brent
Home of Wembley Stadium, Brent is one of the most ethnically diverse local council areas in the UK.

9 hrs ago
Mark Blythen, in his 60s, who has short grey hair and is wearing a short sleeved blue shirt with a lobster pattern and a large orange backpack, stands next to Margo Oakley, who has short blonde hair, a red t-shirt and a large blue backpack. 
'We entered Race Across the World to honour dying wish'
Margo Oakley and her brother-in-law Mark Blythen bonded when their sister and wife Julia was terminally ill.

16 hrs ago
An aerial view of a large group of people on Clapham High Street. A red bus is pulling away while an unmarked police car and a police van are on the road in front of it.
Girls arrested as 'online trends' fuel disturbance
Six teenage girls are arrested after online trends spark anti-social behaviour in south London, the Met says.

17 hrs ago
Lou Tresidder is resting her arm on the bar. She has long white and grey hair and is wearing glasses and a brightly patterned blouse.
National minimum pay rises challenge businesses
Firms in the South West say the national minimum wage rise is challenging among other price hikes.

Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Weather
BBC Shop
BritBox
BBC in other languages
Follow BBC on:






Terms of Use
Subscription Terms
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Contact the BBC
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
BBC.com Help & FAQs
Content Index
Set Preferred Source
Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

 



