Tech CEOs suddenly love blaming AI for mass job cuts. Why?
3 days ago

Share

Save

Add as preferred on Google
Kali Hays
Technology reporter
Reuters Appearing at the second inauguration of Donald Trump, from left to right: Mark Zuckerberg in a black suit, white dress shirt and red necktie; Jeff Bezos in a navy suit, white dress shirt and red neck tie; Sundar Pichai in an all black suit, shirt and neck tie; Elon Musk in a black suit, white dress shirt and navy neck tieReuters
High flying tech bosses including Zuckerberg, Bezos, Pichai and Musk were present at Trump's 2025 inauguration
Sweeping job cuts at Big Tech companies have become an annual tradition. How executives explain those decisions, however, has changed.

Out are buzzwords like efficiency, over-hiring, and too many management layers.

Today, all explanations stem from artificial intelligence (AI).

In recent weeks, giants including Amazon, Meta, as well as smaller firms such as Pinterest and Atlassian, have all announced or warned of plans to shrink their workforce, pointing to developments in AI that they say are allowing their firms to do more with fewer people.

"I think that 2026 is going to be the year that AI starts to dramatically change the way that we work," Meta boss Mark Zuckerberg said in January.

Since then, his firm, which owns Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, has axed hundreds of people, including 700 just last week.

Meta, which plans to nearly double spending on AI this year, is still hiring in "priority areas", a spokesman said.

But more job cuts are expected in the months ahead, while a hiring freeze is in place at many parts of the firm, two people with the company told the BBC.



'I wanted to get ahead of it'
Reuters Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg on a stage motioning toward the thick framed eye glasses on his face which are that are a prototype of the company's unreleased AI-powered smart glasses. He is wearing a black t-shirt and a wrist watch.Reuters
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg in 2025 demonstrating an unreleased version of its AI-powered smart glasses
Jack Dorsey, who leads financial technology firm Block, has been even more explicit about his aims.

"This isn't just about efficiency," he told shareholders last month, as he announced that his company, which operates platforms like CashApp, Square and Tidal, would be shedding almost half its workforce.

"Intelligence tools have changed what it means to build and run a company… A significantly smaller team, using the tools we're building, can do more and do it better."

Dorsey said he expected a "majority of companies" to come to a similar conclusion within the next year. "I wanted to get ahead of it," he added.

Dorsey's justifications drew plenty of sceptics, who pointed out that he has presided over at least two rounds of mass job cuts in the last two years and never mentioned AI.

But explaining cuts by pointing to advances in AI sounds better than citing cost pressures or a desire to please shareholders, says tech investor Terrence Rohan, who has had a seat on many company boards.


"Pointing to AI makes a better blog post," Rohan says. "Or it at least doesn't make you seem as much the bad guy who just wants to cut people for cost-effectiveness."

That does not mean there is no substance behind the words, Rohan added. Some of the companies he's backing are using code that is 25% to 75% AI-generated.

That is a sign of the real threat that AI tools for writing code represent to jobs such as software developer, computer engineer and programmer, posts once considered a near-guarantee of highly paid, stable careers.

"Some of it is that the narrative is changing, some of it is that we really are starting to see step changes in productivity," Anne Hoecker, a partner at Bain who leads the consultancy's technology practice, says of the recent job cuts. "Leaders more recently are seeing these tools are good enough that you really can do the same amount of work with fundamentally less people."

Signalling 'discipline', spending $650bn
There is another way that AI is driving job cuts - and it has nothing to do with the technical abilities of coding tools and chatbots.

Amazon, Meta, Google and Microsoft are collectively planning to pour $650bn (£485bn) into AI in the coming year.

As executives hunt for ways to try to ease investor shock at those costs, many are landing on payroll, typically tech firms' single biggest expense.



Companies are not exactly hiding the connection.

In February, Amazon executives said they plan to spend $200bn over the next year on AI investments, the most out of all the major tech companies.

At the same time, the firm's chief financial officer noted that the company would continue to "work very hard to offset that with efficiencies and cost reductions" elsewhere in the company. Since October, Amazon has cut about 30,000 corporate workers.

Although the expense of, for example, 30,000 corporate Amazon employees is dwarfed by that company's AI spending plans, firms of this size will now take any opportunity to cut costs, Rohan says.

"They're playing a game of inches," Rohan says of cuts at Big Tech firms. "If you can even slightly tune the machine, that is helpful."

Hoecker says cutting jobs also signals to stock market investors worried about the "real and huge" cost of AI development that executives are not blithely writing blank cheques.

"It shows some discipline," says Hoecker. "Maybe laying off people isn't going to make much of a dent in that bill, but by creating a little bit of cashflow, it helps."

Correction: This article originally cited Google as one of several giant companies which have all announced or warned of plans to shrink their workforce because of developments in AI, pointing to comments from chief financial officer Anat Ashkenazi during an investor call in February. However, as these comments came during a discussion which did not refer to the workforce, and Google has not made any announcements to this effect, we have removed these references to the company from this story.


Amazon confirms 16,000 job cuts after accidental email
Facebook-owner Meta to nearly double AI spending
Amazon shares fall as it joins Big Tech AI spending spree
The Chinese AI app sending Hollywood into a panic
Amazon
Google
Jack Dorsey
Artificial intelligence
Employment
Meta
Mark Zuckerberg
Sundar Pichai
Redundancy
Related
Sophie Turner injury halts filming on Tomb Raider TV show
Amazon confirms site closure after consultation
Amazon's Alexa has had an AI upgrade. Now she's got more to say
ADVERTISEMENT
Man jailed for four years after Barron Trump reported attack to UK police
The US president’s youngest son contacted officers when he was in the US to say his friend had been attacked in January 2025.
Co Tyrone: Family find dead lambs in bag on country road
A number of dead lambs were put into a bag and left on the side of the road in County Tyrone.
Spanish woman to die by euthanasia after long legal battle with father
The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) ruled in Noelia Castillo's favour earlier this week.
Man convicted of rape of 17-year-old girl in Warwickshire
Mohammed Tawfiqi, 22, is jailed after being found guilty at trial.
Man reunites with mum in Vietnam three decades after adoption
Ike Robin says meeting his birth mother helped solve the "missing piece of the puzzle" in his life.
Kenyan woman secretly filmed, then ridiculed and harassed online
Women in Kenya and Ghana tell the BBC about being approached by a Russian man who later posts videos of them without their consent.
More from the BBC
2 hrs ago
Clarke running in a residential area, wearing a colourful Fight for Sight-branded running jersey that reads "Mr Dot, Blind, Tech-Guided"
Blind marathon runner to be guided by smart glasses
Clarke Reynolds will tackle the Brighton marathon with the help of a network of virtual guides.

15 hrs ago
Palantir UK boss Louis Mosley speaking to the BBC. He is wearing a dark jacket with a button up jumper and is sitting in front of a grey wall. 
Palantir UK boss says it's up to militaries to decide how AI targeting is used in war
The company's AI platform Maven has reportedly been used by the US to identify targets in Iran.

17 hrs ago
Lou Tresidder is resting her arm on the bar. She has long white and grey hair and is wearing glasses and a brightly patterned blouse.
National minimum pay rises challenge businesses
Firms in the South West say the national minimum wage rise is challenging among other price hikes.

20 hrs ago
A logo of Claude on an iPhone, with a background of the company's star-like logo
Claude Code users hitting usage limits 'way faster than expected'
Anthropic, the company behind the AI coding assistant, said it was fixing a problem blocking users.


1 day ago
Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison sitting in a chair at the White House wearing a dark grey suit, white dress shirt and deep red neck tie.
Thousands lose their jobs in deep cuts at tech giant Oracle
It is thought that thousands of people may have lost their jobs at Oracle, one of the world's largest tech companies.

