Thousands lose their jobs in deep cuts at tech giant Oracle
1 day ago

Share

Save

Add as preferred on Google
Kali Hays
Technology reporter
Reuters Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison sitting in a chair at the White House wearing a dark grey suit, white dress shirt and deep red neck tie.Reuters
Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison (pictured) is one of the world's richest people
Tech giant Oracle made "significant" job cuts on Tuesday, according to senior employees posting online.

Michael Shepherd, a senior manager, was not affected by the job cuts but wrote on LinkedIn that "senior engineers, architects, operations leaders, program managers, and technical specialists" had been let go.

Some 10,000 people are believed to have lost their jobs so far, one employee told the BBC on Tuesday, citing a drop in the number of staff active on Oracle's internal messaging system Slack.

Oracle declined to comment when contacted by BBC News.

The company has been spending heavily on AI but it's not known if these cuts are related to that investment.

Oracle has been using AI tools internally and executives have previously said it enabled fewer employees to do more work.

Shepherd wrote that the "significant reduction in force" was not based on employee performance.

"The individuals affected were not let go because of anything they did or didn't do," he added.



His was one of dozens of such posts describing the layoffs.

Former Oracle employee Kendall Levin said on LinkedIn her role was "eliminated as part of the company's mass reduction in force".

Several others described receiving early morning emails informing them they were no longer employed and would receive one month of severance pay.

Tech CEOs suddenly love blaming AI for mass job cuts. Why?
Oracle is one of the largest tech companies in the world and it offers software and cloud computing infrastructure to other companies.

Larry Ellison, one of the richest people in the world, is Oracle's co-founder, chairman, and chief technology officer.

Talk inside Oracle of a significant layoff began earlier this year.

Claims similar to those of Oracle's executives about companies being able to use AI tools to do more work with fewer employees have come from tech leaders like Mark Zuckerberg of Meta and Jack Dorsey of Block.


Both executives have also overseen layoffs at their companies already this year.

However, such leaders in the tech industry have been conducting mass layoffs every year for the last several years. Previous rounds of cuts have not been blamed on AI.

Other tech companies that have cut jobs this year include Amazon, Pinterest and Epic Games.

Stargate Initiative
The job cuts at Oracle come as it has invested heavily in AI, spending both on its own infrastructure and on partnerships with other companies like OpenAI.

It plans to spend at least $50bn (£37.8bn) on infrastructure this year, and it has also raised $50bn in debt in order to "meet demand" for even more AI infrastructure.

Oracle is also part of the Stargate initiative, alongside OpenAI, Softbank and MGX, an AI investment fund backed by US President Donald Trump.

Stargate is a $500bn project to build up data centre capacity in the US, which backers say is needed for planned increases in AI processing and power requirements over the next several years.



"Investing in AI infrastructure is capital-intensive, but our operating model is optimized to ensure profitability," Clayton Magouyrk, Oracle's co-chief executive, said earlier this month.

"It's unprecedented to scale a capital-intensive business so quickly."

Oracle shares slide as earnings fail to ease AI bubble fears
Larry Ellison: Winning the database wars
Larry Ellison briefly becomes world's richest person
Artificial intelligence
Redundancy
Related
Palantir UK boss says it's up to militaries to decide how AI targeting is used in war
Claude Code users hitting usage limits 'way faster than expected'
What could six fictional voters teach us about how social media really works?
ADVERTISEMENT
Frances Obiefuleh death: Man jailed for life murdering girlfriend
Norbert Maiksner has been jailed for life for murdering his girlfriend Frances Obiefuleh in Havant, Hampshire.
Photos show heavily damaged US radar jet at Saudi base
US Central Command has not yet publicly commented on the incident.
Detectives return to home of Fife teen who vanished 27 years ago
Kenneth Jones, who was 18 at the time, was last seen on 2 November 1988 in Glenrothes.
Frances Obiefuleh death: Man guilty of murdering 'kind' girlfriend
Frances Obiefuleh was suffocated by her boyfriend Norbert Maiksner in Havant, Hampshire.
Stella McCartney's Highland home approved by councillors
The fashion designer and her husband plan to build the house overlooking a sea loch in the Highlands.
Judge hands out nationwide pub ban to two female teenagers
Two teenagers who trashed a hotel are banned from all pubs, bars and nightclubs in England and Wales.
More from the BBC
3 days ago
Appearing at the second inauguration of Donald Trump, from left to right: Mark Zuckerberg in a black suit, white dress shirt and red necktie; Jeff Bezos in a navy suit, white dress shirt and red neck tie; Sundar Pichai in an all black suit, shirt and neck tie; Elon Musk in a black suit, white dress shirt and navy neck tie
Tech CEOs suddenly love blaming AI for mass job cuts. Why?
More tech leaders are pointing to job cuts caused by AI tools - and a need for more investment cash.

6 days ago
Fiona Hatton has brown shoulder length straight hair and blue eyes. She's wearing a black jumper. She's standing in a room with a purple wall to the left and cream wall with a landscape picture on the wall to the right.
'Hospice cutbacks only way service will survive'
Staff at the island's only end-of-life care provider have been offered voluntary redundancy amid financial concerns.

26 Feb 2026
A head and shoulders photos of a woman wearing glasses and a red top
Academy trust CEO to retire as staff cuts loom
Initio Learning Trust is consulting with staff at two of its schools over cuts to teaching staff.

17 Feb 2026
Official Parliamentary portrait of MP Vikki Slade. She has shoulder length chestnut-brown hair and is wearing a deep-purple jacket.
MP 'deeply worried' by academy staff cuts plan
Queen Elizabeth and Corfe Hills schools are affected by the restructuring of Initio Learning Trust.


6 Feb 2026
Front aspect of a five-storey building, with brown pebble-dashed walls. The front entrance is in shot at the middle of the picture. The pavement in the foreground.
Fifty face redundancy as marketing firm shuts
A worker says the boss opened a bar tab for them after they were told their jobs were at risk.

Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Weather
BBC Shop
BritBox
BBC in other languages
Follow BBC on:






Terms of Use
Subscription Terms
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Contact the BBC
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
BBC.com Help & FAQs
Content Index
Set Preferred Source
Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

 


