Iran war: What is happening on day 35 of US-Israeli attacks?
The US-Israel war on Iran hit century-old medical research centre the Pasteur Institute and a bridge near Tehran.

Listen (7 mins)
Save

Click here to share on social media
Share


Add Al Jazeera on Google

People walk near a cordoned off area, as members of the Iranian Red Crescent Society
People walk near a cordoned-off area, as members of the Iranian Red Crescent Society work at the site of a reported strike, amid the US-Israeli war on Iran [Reuters]

By Elizabeth Melimopoulos and AFP
Published On 3 Apr 2026
3 Apr 2026
The United States and Israel are widening their attacks on Iran, hitting infrastructure in and around the capital, as Washington ramps up pressure on Tehran and the conflict spreads across the region.

Meanwhile, US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth has abruptly fired the US Army’s top general and two other senior officers, prompting speculation of a wartime leadership shake-up.

Here is what we know:

In Iran
Intensifying strikes: The US and Israel have expanded their attacks on Iran, hitting a century-old medical research centre in Tehran, steel plants and a bridge near the capital, in some of the latest strikes on Iranian infrastructure.
Bridge strike justification: US officials say the bridge bombed in Iran was used to transport materials for Iranian military drones, Al Jazeera’s Rosiland Jordan reported from Washington, DC. But Iran insists the bridge was civilian infrastructure, which — if true — would make the attack a violation of international law.
Casualties and damage: The human toll continues to rise, with at least 2,076 people killed and 26,500 wounded in Iran since the start of US-Israeli attacks. Iran’s Foreign Ministry says more than 600 schools and education centres have been hit since February 28.
Iran’s retaliation: Iran’s military says the war will continue until its enemies face “humiliation” and “surrender”, specifically cautioning the US against a ground invasion.
Iran’s Foreign Ministry:  A spokesperson declared, “What is important for the Iranian nation is to defend itself against this aggression, and we are ready for any type of attack, including a ground attack.”

Play Video
1:25
Now Playing
01:25
Iran vows retaliation after deadly US strike on bridge in Karaj
Iran vows retaliation after deadly US strike on bridge in Karaj
Next
01:49
Gaza medical struggles: Newborn dies after being denied urgent evacuation
Gaza medical struggles: Newborn dies after being denied urgent evacuation
02:15
Parents grieve after man kills four children at Ugandan nursery
Parents grieve after man kills four children at Ugandan nursery
01:49
US General’s exit sparks fears of politicised Pentagon
US General’s exit sparks fears of politicised Pentagon
01:40
Donald Trump fires loyalist Attorney General Pam Bondi
Donald Trump fires loyalist Attorney General Pam Bondi

War diplomacy
Advertisement
Pakistan pushes US-Iran talks: Pakistan says it will continue trying to push Washington and Tehran towards ending the war, but admits there are “obstacles” to peace efforts. The comments came hours after Trump threatened to bomb Iran if it did not accept US terms. Read more on the efforts here.
Hormuz blockade talks: The United Kingdom is holding talks with about 40 countries on reopening the Strait of Hormuz, which carries about 20 percent of the world’s oil and LNG, after Iran’s blockade halted most shipping and pushed oil prices above $100 a barrel. The US is not taking part. Can such an effort work? Read our explainer.
Force in Hormuz: The secretary-general of the Gulf Cooperation Council called for the UN Security Council to authorise the use of force to protect the Strait of Hormuz from Iranian attacks.
US position on diplomacy: The US State Department says Trump is “always open to diplomacy” with Iran and had pursued talks before the war, but Washington continues to accuse Tehran of seeking a nuclear weapon.
Philippine ships granted “safe” Hormuz passage: The Philippines says its ships will be granted safe passage through the Strait of Hormuz after talks with Iran, Al Jazeera’s Patrick Fok said, reporting from Singapore. Manila had sought “non-hostile” status to secure oil shipments, and Foreign Minister Tess Lazaro said Iran pledged Philippine-flagged vessels, energy cargo and seafarers would be allowed “safe, unhindered and expeditious passage”.
In the Gulf
UAE: Falling shrapnel killed a Bangladeshi farmworker in the United Arab Emirates.
Bahrain: Warning sirens sounded multiple times and residents were told to seek shelter, while highway traffic near Saar was diverted due to falling debris. The ministry called on motorists to take alternative routes and follow instructions until traffic returns to normal.
Saudi Arabia: The Defence Ministry said it intercepted and destroyed an incoming drone.
Kuwait: Emergency services extinguished a fire at the airport.
In the US
US military leadership shakeup: US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth abruptly fired Army Chief of Staff General Randy George on Thursday, effective immediately. Reports say two other senior officers, General David Hodne and Major-General William Green Jr, were also dismissed, prompting speculation the administration is reshaping military leadership to align more closely with the president’s agenda.
Trump steps up threats: The US president has intensified his rhetoric against Tehran, threatening to bomb Iran back to the “stone ages” and warning that the US military “hasn’t even started” targeting key infrastructure. He said bridges, power plants and energy facilities could be next unless Tehran accepts US terms to end the conflict.
US casualties: The US has lost 13 service members in combat and two to noncombat causes, with more than 200 injured.
US carrier departs Croatia: The USS Gerald R Ford left Croatia after five days in port, the US Navy said, without revealing its next destination, as US forces reposition in the region.
Most Iranian Americans oppose war: A new poll suggests that a majority of Iranian Americans reject the US-Israeli war on their homeland. More than 66 percent of respondents to the survey, commissioned by the National Iranian American Council (NIAC), say they oppose the war, while 32.7 percent say they support it.
Advertisement
In Israel
In Israel, sirens have become ‘part of life’: Israelis are repeatedly heading to shelters, especially in the Tel Aviv area where millions live, Al Jazeera’s Nour Odeh reports from near Ramallah. Sirens have also sounded in Ashdod and Ashkelon, schools have moved online, and the airport is operating at reduced capacity as Israel prepares for a prolonged war and expands strikes on Iranian strategic industries.
Northern front: Fighting with Hezbollah remains intense, with the group saying it carried out 60 military operations against Israel in 24 hours, including rocket fire targeting Israeli troop gatherings in Malkia and Dishon, an explosive device attack in Biyyada, and attacks that it said disabled four Israeli tanks.
In Lebanon, Iraq, Syria
US bases in Iraq targeted: Iraqi armed group Saraya Awliya al-Dam has claimed responsibility for six attacks on US military facilities in the past 24 hours, in a statement released on its Telegram channel.
Syria front: Israel has expanded its raids across southern Syria, while the Syrian government says it has uncovered and blocked two tunnels used to smuggle weapons to Hezbollah. Meanwhile, Hamas’s armed wing has praised protests in Syria against a new Israeli law imposing the death penalty on certain Palestinian prisoners.
‘Alarming’ displacement risk: The head of the International Organization for Migration has warned of “very alarming” prospects for prolonged mass displacement in Lebanon as fighting between Israel and Hezbollah continues. “There are parts of the south that are being completely flattened,” Amy Pope told the AFP news agency, warning that even if the war ended now, the destruction would leave many unable to return home.
listen to these podcasts
podcast episode artwork
play media 0
From: The Take
What is the 'Greater Israel' project?
A vision long embedded in Israeli politics is coming into clearer view. We look at the "Greater Israel" project – where it...
podcast episode artwork
play media 1
From: The Take
Why Iran believes it can outlast the US
Iran appears to believe it can survive this war. That calculation may be shaping its stance on a ceasefire, even as strike...
podcast episode artwork
play media 2
From: The Take
Who’s in charge in Iran after leadership strikes?
Strikes on Iran have killed senior figures, raising questions about who still holds power. We take a closer look at the ke...
Related
Iran condemns US-Israeli ‘moral collapse’ after attacks on civilian sites
Strikes damage or destroy Iran’s tallest bridge and a century-old medical research centre fighting diseases.

Published On 3 Apr 2026
3 Apr 2026
A newly constructed bridge struck by U.S. airstrikes Thursday is seen in Karaj, west of Tehran, Iran, Friday, April 3, 2026. (AP Photo/Vahid Salemi)
How Israel is destroying healthcare infrastructure in southern Lebanon
Israel’s attacks on hospitals, medical centres and healthcare workers are fuelling displacement and a health crisis.

Published On 3 Apr 2026
3 Apr 2026
NABATIEH, LEBANON - MARCH 24: Staff at Nabih Berri Hospital react to reports of a drone strike that killed the son of one of the hospital's workers on March 24, 2026 in Nabatieh, Lebanon. Israel has continued its aerial and ground assault in Lebanon after Hezbollah, the Iran-backed militant group in Lebanon, launched missiles at Israel in what it said was retaliation for the joint U.S.-Israeli war on Iran. (Photo by Adri Salido/Getty Images)
Iranian women footballers reveal ‘enormous pressure’ of the Asian Cup saga
Two Iranian players who sought asylum in Australia before changing their minds tell their story to Al Jazeera.

Published On 3 Apr 2026
3 Apr 2026
GOLD COAST, AUSTRALIA - MARCH 05: Mona Hamoudi and Zahra Sarbali of Islamic Republic of Iran react after Alanna Kennedy of Australia scores their teams third goal during the AFC Women's Asian Cup Australia 2026 match between Islamic Republic of Iran and Australia Matildas at Gold Coast Stadium on March 05, 2026 in Gold Coast, Australia. (Photo by Cameron Spencer/Getty Images)
Hegseth fires US Army chief of staff in reported string of dismissals
Retirement of Randy George is latest high-profile dismissal since the US defence secretary took office last January.

Published On 3 Apr 2026
3 Apr 2026
Randy George
More from News
Man City host Liverpool for FA Cup quarterfinal in crunch game for Slot
LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND - MARCH 18: Mohamed Salah of Liverpool during the UEFA Champions League 2025/26 Round of 16 Second Leg match between Liverpool FC and Galatasaray SK at Anfield on March 18, 2026 in Liverpool, England. (Photo by Michael Regan/Getty Images)
Why did Trump fire Pam Bondi from Justice Department, who is Todd Blanche?
Bondi became attorney general in February 2025, promising more transparency in the Epstein case [FILE: Reuters]
Lakers handed one of heaviest defeats by Thunder and hit by Doncic injury
Los Angeles Lakers guard Luka Doncic (77) falls to the court during a play against the Oklahoma City Thunder
Iran condemns US-Israeli ‘moral collapse’ after attacks on civilian sites
A newly constructed bridge struck by U.S. airstrikes Thursday is seen in Karaj, west of Tehran, Iran, Friday, April 3, 2026. (AP Photo/Vahid Salemi)
Most popular