Skip to content


Register

Sign In
Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live

Tech firms pledge to pay for AI data centre power costs. But will they?
5 March 2026

Share

Save

Add as preferred on Google
Danielle Kaye
Business reporter
Reuters An aerial view of a data centre.Reuters
An aerial view of an Amazon Web Services Data Center known as US East 1 in Ashburn, Virginia, U.S., October 20, 2025.
Technology firms including Google and Meta have said they will shoulder the costs to power artificial intelligence data centres, as the White House faces pressure to address rising electricity prices.

US President Donald Trump has embraced the AI sector. But the expansion of data centres has strained the electric grid, and utility bills are a top cost-of-living issue for voters ahead of November's midterm elections.

In a meeting at the White House, tech executives signed a "ratepayer protection pledge", which Trump unveiled last month. But it is unclear how Big Tech will be held to the pledge.

Analysts question how such an agreement can be enforced, and what relief it would offer US households.

The US and Israel's war with Iran could also undercut the president's push to lower electricity bills as supply chains are disrupted and global oil and natural gas prices spike.

Seven leading tech firms - Google, Microsoft, Meta, Oracle, xAI, OpenAI and Amazon - have signed on to the pledge, Trump administration officials said.

The companies have agreed to build, bring or buy new power generation capacity for data centres, officials said.

The firms said they would commit to paying for new power infrastructure upgrades, and would negotiate rate structures with utility companies at the state level, as well as hire workers local to where data centres are built.



The commitments "will help keep down utility bills very substantially", Trump said at Wednesday's meeting with tech executives, while cautioning it would "take a little bit of time to get there".

US Energy Secretary Chris Wright told reporters during a briefing that the administration is still committed to leading in the AI boom, but "we're going to do all of that without raising electricity prices for Americans".

At the same time, Trump acknowledged that tech companies "need some PR help" amid a backlash to data centres in local communities nationwide.

The tech pledge may be difficult to enforce, said John Quigley, a senior fellow at the Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania.

He cited the multiple layers of government, grid managers and electricity regulators involved in power projects.

"The burden of proof is on them," he said, referring to Trump administration officials, "to prove this is more than just a stunt".

On the campaign trail, Trump said he would cut energy bills in half during his first year back in the White House.

But residential prices rose 6% in 2025 on average, according to the US Energy Information Administration.

On top of strain from data centres, the price of natural gas - which is a crucial component for nearly half of electricity generation in the US - has jumped over the past year.

The natural gas industry is exporting more and more overseas to take advantage of high demand globally, which is contributing to higher domestic utility bills, analysts say.

Electricity pricing
Artificial intelligence
Donald Trump
Technology
Related
Octopus boss: We've seen a 50% rise in solar panel sales since start of Iran war
NI households set for £30 electricity reduction in July
No further price hike expected for electricity bills
More from the BBC
3 hrs ago
US President Donald Trump in a dark coat and red ties holds up a poster board outlining new reciprocal tariff rates on Liberation Day in the Rose Garden of the White House in Washington, DC, USA, 02 April 2025.
A year on: Four ways Trump's tariffs have changed the global economy
US tariffs stand at the highest rate in decades. But what has the impact been?

5 hrs ago
Image shows Donald Trump
Trump leaves key questions unanswered as he seeks to calm nerves over Iran war
There were some glaring omissions in the president's primetime address, writes the BBC's Gary O'Donoghue.

6 hrs ago
Trump speaks during his televised address.
Trump says US 'on the cusp' of ending Iran war in televised address
The president also called on countries reliant on the Strait of Hormuz to 'build up the courage' to secure it.

7 hrs ago
Trump signs executive order on mail-in voting
Trump signs executive order attempting to change mail-in voting
Election experts say the order - which requires a list of US citizens who can vote - is unconstitutional.

9 hrs ago
U.S. Speaker of the House Mike Johnson (R-LA) holds a press conference in the U.S. Capitol building on March 27, 2026 in Washington, DC. 
Republicans unveil plan to end partial government shutdown
The plan would fund the Department of Homeland Security and immigration and border agencies separately.

Home
News
Sport
Business
Technology
Health
Culture
Arts
Travel
Earth
Audio
Video
Live
Weather
BBC Shop
BritBox
BBC in other languages
Follow BBC on:






Terms of Use
Subscription Terms
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Contact the BBC
Advertise with us
Do not share or sell my info
BBC.com Help & FAQs
Content Index
Set Preferred Source
Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

 



