Iran War

The U.S. and Israel’s attack on Iran is the most consequential military operation in the Middle East in more than two decades.

3 hours ago
Trump's anger over Iran thrusts NATO into fresh crisis
The 76-year-old alliance has in recent years survived existential challenges, ranging from the war in Ukraine to pressure and insults from Trump. But it is the U.S.-Israeli war with Iran that has nearly broken it.

U.S. President Trump holds a bilateral meeting with NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte, at the World Economic Forum in Davos
1 hour ago
Trump vows to hit more Iranian infrastructure as nations seek to open Hormuz
The B1 bridge damaged by a strike, as the U.S.-Israeli conflict with Iran continues, in Karaj
5 hours ago
UN to vote on Hormuz resolution as China opposes authorization of force
6 hours ago
US experts say American strikes on Iran may amount to war crimes
Aftermath of a strike on a residential building in Tehran
April 2, 2026
A war meant to break Iran could leave Tehran stronger, and Gulf exposed
51 mins ago
Hyundai Motor flags export disruptions as Middle East conflict hits shipping
South Korean Trade Minister visits automobile logistics hub in Pyeongtaek
15 mins ago
Australians cancel Easter travel as worries mount over fuel crisis
5 hours ago
Trump threatens to strike Iran's bridges and electric power plants
U.S. President Donald Trump delivers an address to the nation about the Iran war at the White House in Washington
4 hours ago
Drones hit Kuwait's Mina al-Ahmadi refinery, fires reported, no injuries
Graphics
April 1, 2026
How China can survive without the Strait of Hormuz
A droplet of oil with the globe map inside, focusing on the Strait of Hormuz and China (mainland), and the sketch of a bar chart in the background.
March 27, 2026
Israel's campaign to sever southern Lebanon in a new ‘buffer zone’
Graphic: Israel's campaign to sever southern Lebanon
March 20, 2026
Attacks on major oil, gas sites in the Middle East
Image of Iran and the surrounding nations with icons indicating attack sites
March 19, 2026
The complexities of refueling the war in the sky
Refueling aircraft

Pictures
April 1, 2026
Targeting tankers: Photos of Iranian strikes on oil shipping
TANKERS
March 31, 2026
In Lebanon, more than a million displaced by Israeli strikes
Displaced people find shelter amid escalating hostilities between Hezbollah and Israel in Beirut
March 28, 2026
Scenes from one month of war
Funeral of the victims following an Israeli strike on a school in Minab
March 31, 2026
Photos show aftermath from Iran's waves of retaliatory strikes
A damaged U.S. E-3 radar aircraft at Prince Sultan Air Base
Latest videos


Pakistanis 'crushed' by fuel price hikes amid Middle East conflict

00:37

Pakistanis 'crushed' by fuel price hikes amid Middle East conflict

What happens if Trump ends the military campaign in Iran?

01:08

What happens if Trump ends the military campaign in Iran?

Eyewitness video shows flooding in Israel after missile strike

00:17

Eyewitness video shows flooding in Israel after missile strike

Fire blazes near Iranian military installation after attack

00:17

Fire blazes near Iranian military installation after attack

Trump calls on other countries to guard Strait of Hormuz

00:37

Trump calls on other countries to guard Strait of Hormuz

Trump threatens to hit Iran 'extremely hard' over the next few weeks

00:52

Trump threatens to hit Iran 'extremely hard' over the next few weeks


00:51

Trump's comments on NATO as he threatens to quit the alliance


00:46

Trump on Iran, NATO, Tiger Woods


00:50

Missile intercepted over Tel Aviv, debris reported in central Israel


00:20

Crowds gather in Iran for funeral of Tangsiri and other commanders

More coverage
Sustainabilitycategory·4 hours ago
Bangladesh cuts working hours to save energy amid Middle East crisis
Bangladesh has launched fresh measures to curb energy consumption, cutting office hours and trimming public spending as conflict ​in the Middle East disrupts global fuel markets and ‌strains power supply in the South Asian nation.

Vehicles queue at a fuel station amid concerns over fuel supply amid the U.S.-Israel conflict with Iran
Asia Pacificcategory·6 hours ago
World anxious to open Hormuz Strait while Trump and Iran trade threats
Dozens of countries sought ways to restart vital energy shipments through the Strait of Hormuz on Thursday after U.S. President Donald Trump vowed more ​aggressive attacks on Iran.

U.S. President Donald Trump delivers an address to the nation about the Iran war at the White House in Washington
Asia Pacificcategory·4 hours ago
Japan's order for Tomahawk missiles delayed by US use in Iran, Bloomberg News says
Japan's order for hundreds ​of Tomahawk missiles ‌from the United States faces ​delays as ​the American-Israel war with ⁠Iran strains ​inventories, Bloomberg News ​said on Friday, citing people familiar ​with the ​matter.

USS Thomas Hudner supports Operation Epic Fury
4 hours ago
Europe must prepare for 'long-lasting' energy shock, EU energy commissioner tells FT
The EU is assessing "all possibilities" including ​fuel rationing and ‌releasing more oil from emergency reserves as it ​braces for ​a "long-lasting" energy shock from the ⁠Middle East war, ​the Financial Times ​reported on Friday in an interview with EU Energy ​Commissioner Dan Jorgensen.

European Union Energy and Foreign Affairs ministers meeting in Brussels
United Statescategory·13 hours ago
Trump reflects on limits to his power
Donald Trump’s speech to Americans on Wednesday told us little new about a month-old war that’s come to dominate his presidency. But the U.S. president’s comments this week to allies and even reporters about the limits on his power at home and abroad have been more revealing.

U.S. President Donald Trump delivers an address to the nation about the Iran war at the White House in Washington
April 2, 2026
Can Trump pull the US out of NATO?
President Donald Trump threatened on Wednesday to pull the United States out of NATO due to its ​European members' refusal to send ships to unblock the Strait of Hormuz near Iran, as he intensified his denunciations of the military alliance.

NATO summit in The Hague
Middle Eastcategory·19 hours ago
A month into war, Lebanon's prime minister says no end in sight 
Lebanese Prime Minister Nawaf Salam said on Thursday there was no end in sight to a war that had already displaced a million people over the ​last month, as families fleeing Israeli strikes said they were exhausted by repeated rounds of conflict.

Aftermath of an Israeli strike in Houmine El Tahta
Middle Eastcategory·13 hours ago
Medical needs surging in Iran and supplies under threat, Red Cross warns
Emergency medical ​needs in Iran are rising exponentially, and stocks of trauma kits and other gear could run low if ‌the war persists, the head of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies delegation there said on Thursday.

Iranian rescuers search rubble of damaged buildings in western Tehran
11 hours ago
Director Lin-Manuel Miranda will make musical ‘Octet’ into movie
Lin-Manuel Miranda, director of the 11‑time Tony Award–winning musical "Hamilton," will direct a musical ​film adaptation of Dave Malloy’s chamber choir musical "Octet" ‌as his next feature project, 5000 Broadway Productions announced Thursday.

The 78th Annual Tony Awards in New York
Worldcategory·11 hours ago
Zelenskiy offers Ukraine's maritime expertise with Strait of Hormuz
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy on Thursday offered to provide Ukraine's expertise in dealing with freedom of navigation in the Black Sea ​to countries considering how to keep the Strait of ‌Hormuz open amid conflict in the Middle East.

A cargo ship in the Gulf, near the Strait of Hormuz

Site Index
Latest
Home
Authors
Topic Sitemap
Archive
Article Sitemap
Browse
World
Business
Markets
Sustainability
Legal
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Sports
Science
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
Podcasts