Trump says US ‘hasn’t even started destroying what’s left in Iran’ after major Tehran bridge hit
Iranian state media meanwhile released photos of what it claimed is the wreckage of a downed US fighter jet. CNN has asked the US military for comment
Here's the latest
• Trump threat: The US president issued a new a warning to Tehran, warning the US military “hasn’t even started destroying what’s left in Iran”. This came after a strike on a major bridge just outside Tehran killed at least eight people.

• Iran claims US jet downed: Iranian state media on Friday released photos of what it claimed is the wreckage of a US Air Force fighter jet downed by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. CNN has asked US Central Command for comment.

• US military movements: The Pentagon released photos of Marines conducting a simulated amphibious assault even as President Donald Trump said it will be up to other countries to open the strait. Meanwhile, the aircraft carrier USS Gerald R. Ford is back at sea after undergoing repairs for a fire on board.

• Thai ship attack: Human remains have been found on the Thai vessel struck in the Strait of Hormuz last month. Three sailors are still missing.

All
catch up
21 Posts

1 New Update

15 min ago
Energy prices will be high "for a very long time,” EU's energy chief tells FT
Olesya Dmitracova
By Olesya Dmitracova
The European Union is preparing for a long-lasting energy shock from the war in the Middle East, the bloc’s energy chief has told the Financial Times.

“This will be a long crisis. … Energy prices will be higher for a very long time,” Dan Jørgensen, in charge of energy and housing at the European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, said in an interview published Friday.

The EU is “not in a security-of-supply crisis, yet” and is “not there yet” on needing to ration critical oil products such as jet fuel or diesel, Jørgensen said. But the bloc is “preparing for the worst scenarios” and assessing “all possibilities,” including fuel rationing and releasing more oil from emergency reserves.


26 min ago
Iran claims photos show downed US fighter jet
By Brad Lendon, Isaac Yee, CNN
Debris consistent with US Air Force F-15.
Debris consistent with US Air Force F-15. Nour News/Telegram
Iranian state media on Friday released photos of what it claimed is the wreckage of a US Air Force fighter jet downed by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.

The series of photos shows only small pieces of an aircraft, the largest about as tall as a person, that the Iranian report claims is an F-35 stealth fighter.

But the wreckage photos appear to be from a US Air Force F-15 jet.

The photos show a partial logo for “US Air Forces in Europe” that appears on a F-15 tail fin and red-and-white striping from the top of the tail fin.

Another piece of wreckage – with the words “CAUTION USE ONLY NON-MAGNETIC FASTENERS” – appears to match a rear portion of an F-15 that extends between one of its two engines and its horizontal stabilizer.

“From the structure it certainly looks like an F-15, and from the tail flash stripe markings, from the 48th Fighter Wing, based at RAF Lakenheath in the United Kingdom,” Peter Layton, a fellow at the Griffith Asia Institute and former Royal Australian Air Force officer, told CNN.

Multiple Iranian state media outlets, including Press TV, published the images along with a statement from the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) saying that Iranian forces had shot down an F-35 stealth fighter in central Iran.

“Due to the complete disintegration of the aircraft, the fate of the pilot remains unknown,” Iran’s Press TV said.

CNN has asked US Central Command (CENTCOM) for comment on the Iranian claim.

Debris consistent with US Air Force F-15.
Debris consistent with US Air Force F-15. Nour News/Telegram
Earlier, the IRGC claimed that a different “advanced enemy fighter jet” was shot down over the Strait of Hormuz, between Qeshm and Hengam islands. In that instance, no images were released of wreckage to support that claim.

In a “Fact Check” post on X published after that first claim, CENTCOM denied any US fighter jets were lost over Qeshm island and said Iran’s forces routinely make false claims.

“All US fighter aircraft are accounted for. Iran’s IRGC has made the same false claim at least half a dozen times,” CENTCOM said.

CENTCOM has yet to issue a “Fact Check” post on X on the latest shootdown claim by the Revolutionary Guards over central Iran.


1 hr 3 min ago
Shocked by gas at $4 in America? It's $15 in Hong Kong
Kristie Lu Stout
By John Liu and Kristie Lu Stout in Hong Kong
If you thought paying $4 for gasoline was bad, spare a thought for this international financial hub which currently has the highest gas prices in the world.

As average gas prices across the United States hit a record since 2022, residents of Hong Kong are confronted with the world’s costliest petroleum – at around US$15.6 per gallon.

Even before President Donald Trump launched a war against Iran – and plunged the world into a historic energy crisis – the semi-autonomous Chinese city had consistently faced the world’s highest gasoline prices, according to data from GlobalPetrolPrices.com, an energy price tracking website.

The conflict involving oil-producing Gulf states, and the effective closure of a critical oil and gas shipping route in the Strait of Hormuz, has sent oil prices surging globally over the past month. This is particularly painful for Hong Kong and other Asian economies, which depend heavily on energy sourced from the Middle East and transported through the strait.


While private car owners represent only about 8.4% of the city’s 7.5 million people, according to data calculated from Hong Kong’s Transport Department, economists said the sky-high gasoline prices could add to inflation and raise logistics costs, which will eventually ripple through other sectors.

City leader John Lee expressed concern about surging oil prices last month, and pledged to monitor price fluctuations closely. For now, energy supply in the city is secure as Hong Kong sources around 80% of its oil products from mainland China, according to the city’s government.

Read more about Hong Kong’s fuel prices here.


1 hr 10 min ago
Pakistan hikes petrol, diesel prices by up to 55% in response to war
Sophia Saifi
Sophia Saifi in Islamabad
People queue at a gas station amid rising petrol prices in Karachi, Pakistan, on Friday.
People queue at a gas station amid rising petrol prices in Karachi, Pakistan, on Friday. Rizwan Tabassum/AFP/Getty Images
Pakistan’s government has hiked the price of petrol and diesel by 43% and 55% in response to the surge in global prices due to the Iran war.

The South Asian country of more than 240 million people imports most of its crude from the Gulf.

Speaking on Thursday, energy minister Ali Pervaiz Malik announced that the price hike would now make petrol around $6.25 per gallon and diesel around $7 per gallon.

Motorcycle users will receive a Rs100 (36 cents) subsidy per liter of fuel for a period of three months, capped at 20 liters per month.

A decision whether to restrict market operating hours will be announced next week, finance minister Muhammad Aurangzeb said, as authorities mull ways of reducing electricity consumption.

Pakistan has warm ties with both the US and Iran and has said it is willing to facilitate talks to end their conflict.


Read more

1 hr 31 min ago
“There is nothing left,” says Iranian music school owner after strike hits building
Jessie Yeung
By Laila Davies and Jessie Yeung
Hamidreza Afarideh's music studio in Tehran, Iran.
Hamidreza Afarideh's music studio in Tehran, Iran. Hamidreza Afarideh
The sounds of classical Persian music used to fill the rooms of the Honiak Music Academy in Tehran: the deft plucking of the setar, the ringing of the santur.

It was the pride and joy of Iranian musician Hamidreza Afarideh, who opened the school two years ago with his wife, Sheida Ebadatdoust. They had poured their hearts and money into creating a space that felt like a haven for their 250 students, who ranged in age from toddlers to the elderly.

Now, he says, it has all been “wiped out.”

An Israeli airstrike hit the building housing their music school, along with several other businesses including a maternity clinic, on March 23. The building was located on the east side of the Iranian capital, less than two kilometers (1.3 miles) from a military air base.

There was nobody in the music center at the time – Afarideh and Ebadatdoust closed the school not long after the US and Israel launched their joint attack on Iran, to protect their students and staff from relentless bombardment.

But the destruction cuts deep for the couple, who have devoted their lives to sharing the joy of music. And it reflects the devastating impact of the war on civilians – the loss of normalcy, security, livelihoods and passions – that goes far beyond the stark numbers of a death toll that rises every day.

“All the property and assets that my spouse and I had built over 15 years of hard work were destroyed overnight — completely wiped out, with nothing left,” said Afarideh.

Read Afarideh and Ebadatdoust’s story here.


1 hr 41 min ago
How China is pushing for green energy as war roils global markets
By CNN staff
China has been investing in green energy for decades, long believing its reliance on fossil fuels from the Middle East left it vulnerable.

As the Iran war shocks global oil supplies, CNN’s Mike Valerio learns more about the world’s largest wind energy generation system from a wind farm on the outskirts of Beijing.


China Green Energy Boom
02:34

1 hr 32 min ago
Pentagon releases photos of Marines practicing amphibious assault
Brad Lendon
By Brad Lendon
US Marines with Force Reconnaissance Platoon, 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, conduct a simulated reconnaissance and surveillance mission part of a simulated amphibious assault, on March 24, 2026.
US Marines with Force Reconnaissance Platoon, 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, conduct a simulated reconnaissance and surveillance mission part of a simulated amphibious assault, on March 24, 2026. Lance Cpl. Victor Gurrola/U.S. Marine Corps
The US military on Thursday showed off photos of US Marines conducting a simulated amphibious assault, even as US President Donald Trump is saying it will be up to other countries to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.

The set of eight photos released on a Defense Department website showed members of the Force Reconnaissance Platoon of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit (MEU) doing a mock recon last week, coming ashore at the US naval base on Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean.

US Marines with Force Reconnaissance Platoon, 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, conduct a simulated reconnaissance and surveillance mission part of a simulated amphibious assault at naval support facility, Diego Garcia, on March 24, 2026.
US Marines with Force Reconnaissance Platoon, 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, conduct a simulated reconnaissance and surveillance mission part of a simulated amphibious assault at naval support facility, Diego Garcia, on March 24, 2026. Lance Cpl. Victor Gurrola/U.S. Marine Corps
The 31st MEU is part of the USS Tripoli Amphibious Ready Group, which CNN has reported was being deployed to the Middle East with as many as 2,400 Marines.

The Marines would likely be an important part of any US assault on islands in the Persian Gulf, including those that oversee the approaches to the Strait of Hormuz, through which 20% of the world’s oil supply usually flows.

US Central Command has said that roughly 50,000 US troops, including Marines, are already in the Middle East as part of the war with Iran.

Trump has previously threatened Iranian islands in the gulf, including its main oil transfer point on Kharg Island, but in his televised address Wednesday night he did not mention the possibility of using ground troops against Iran.



